

# 1. Installation and Compilation

## 1.1.Basic Test

Open the terminal and go to the path where you want to have the simulator:

    git clone https://github.com/PrincetonUniversity/muchiSim.git

If you have a bash or shell terminal, you can run the following commands to set up the environment and run the first basic experiment. Alternatively, you can run within Docker (see [setting up Docker](#b-run-the-simulator-within-docker)).

    cd muchiSim
    source setup.sh
    exp/run_app.sh

The **simulation logs** will be saved in the `sim_logs` folder. Particularly, **the basic experiment you ran with the run_app.sh script** creates a log called `DATA-Kron16--16-X-16--BA16-A4.log`. This log contains first the logs of the dataset being loaded, Kron16, aka, RMAT-16 (containing $2^{16}$ vertices or non-zero elements). Later, it shows information about the manycore configuration (16x16 grid with a single chiplet of 16x16 tiles, 1 PU/tile, etc.), and its estimated cost. Then, it shows statistics about the simulation frame by frame (the length of the frame period time is configurable).


## 1.2. Creating the Python Environment

    python3 --version

The visualization tools require Python3.6 or higher! If you don't have Python installed, you can use the Docker version (see [setting up Docker](#b-run-the-simulator-within-docker)). If you run within the Docker, do not run this section that creates a `venv` and installs the dependencies.

RUN THE FOLLOWING COMMANDS **ONLY IF RUNNING NATIVELY, NOT WITHIN DOCKER** AS DEPENDENCIES ARE ALREADY INSTALLED
    
    python3 -m venv gui/env_viz             
    source gui/env_viz/bin/activate
    pip install --upgrade pip && pip install PyQt5 matplotlib imageio

To test if the Python environment is correctly set up, run the following command:

    python3 gui/visualization.py --h # if you see the help message, then the environment is correctly set up
    

## 1.3. Re-process Logs After Changing Energy/Area/Cost Parameters

This example changes the cost of $/GiB of HBM memory and re-processes the logs of the basic experiment. The script `exp/reprocess.sh` will re-process the logs and output the new simulation logs with respect to energy and cost. 

The `reprocess.sh` script takes an argument to specify the experiment to re-process. If no argument is provided, it will re-process the logs of the basic experiment `Kron16--16-X-16--BA16-A4`.

    set_conf "param_cost" "hbm_usd_per_gib" 5 # Change the cost of HBM memory to 5 USD/GiB
    exp/reprocess.sh

    set_conf "param_cost" "hbm_usd_per_gib" 7.5 # Change back to the original value
    exp/reprocess.sh


# Troubleshooting with Compilation

This section solves common questions and issues that may arise when building the simulator on different systems.


### A. No git? No problem

Download the zip file from the GitHub page and extract it to the desired location. https://github.com/PrincetonUniversity/muchiSim.git


### B. Run the Simulator within Docker

If you don't have Docker installed you can get it from https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/

We have prepared two types of Dockerfiles for you to choose from. The first one is a minimal Dockerfile that only runs the simulator, and the second one includes Python environment to run the visualization tools. If you want to run the visualization tools (based on Python) within your laptop, then you only need to build the minimal Dockerfile.

Run the following commands from the MuchiSim directory to build the Docker image. 

#### Simulator Dockerfile (including Python environment)

Make sure Docker is installed on your system and the Docker daemon is running. You can verify this by running:

    docker --version
    cd $MUCHI_ROOT

**Option A:** Build the Docker image yourself (should take a minute)

    docker build -f tutorial/Dockerfile -t muchisim-dock .
    docker run -v $PWD:/root/muchiSim -it muchisim-dock

**Option B:** Pull the Docker image from Docker Hub

    docker pull orenesvera/muchisim-dock
    docker run -v $PWD:/root -it orenesvera/muchisim-dock
    
**TEST:** Note that the above `run -v $PWD:\root` command mounted your muchiSim folder as root of the Docker, so now you can operate on the folder within the Docker. Now you can follow the instructions to run the basic experiment.
    
    source setup.sh
    exp/run_app.sh


### C. If you encounter trouble because you are not using a bash terminal

To switch to bash

    exec bash

Alternatively, you may use the Docker version (see above) if you do not have a UNIX-like bash terminal.